# Description

## 1. read_disaster.py
This file mainly deal with file *number-of-natural-disaster-events.csv*. Read data and generate figure object

Using module `plotly.express`, `pandas`, `numpy`

### 1.1 `read_total_natural_disaster()`
This function read number-of-natural-disaster.cvs and return a Dataframe contains the total number of natual disaster of each year

The file path is set as *./data/number-of-natural-disaster-events.csv*

### 1.2 `fig_total_natural_disaster()`
This function used the dataframe returned by `read_total_natural_disaster()` and generateds a ploty fig object. The graph is a plotly express line graph

### 1.3 `read_natural_disaster()`
This function read *number-of-natural-disaster.cvs* and return a Dataframe contains the number of different types of natual disaster

### 1.4 `fig_natural_disaster()`
This function used the dataframe returned by `read_total_natural_disaster()` and generates a ploty fig object. The graph is a plotly express line graph. Number of different types of diaster vs. time


## 2. read_co2.py
This file mainly deal with file *country-and-continent-codes-list.csv*. Read & clean data and generate figure object

Using module `plotly.express`, `pandas`, `numpy`

### 2.1 `read_co2_continent(year_start=1900, year_end=2018)`
This function reads the amounts of CO2 emission of the world and each continents from 1900 to 2018. The data was rearranged. 

Output dataframe structure

| Index | area | year | co2 |

Areas are 'World', 'Africa', 'Asia', 'Europe', 'Oceania', 'North America', 'South America'

### 2.2 `read_co2_continent()`
This function used the dataframe returned by `read_co2_continent` and generateds a ploty fig object

### 2.3 `read_co2_trans()`
This function reads the amounts of CO2 emission of international transportation.

Output dataframe structure

| Index | year | co2 |

### 2.4 `fig_co2_trans()`
This function used the dataframe returned by `read_co2_trans()` and generateds a ploty fig object

### 2.5 `get_country_continent_dict()`
This function read *country-and-continent-codes-list.csv* and generate a dictionary with iso country code as keys and corresponding continents as values.

The file path is set as *'./data/country-and-continent-codes-list.csv'*

### 2.6 `read_co2_country(year_start=1990, year_end=2018)`
This function reads the amounts of CO2 emission of each country. The data was rearranged and added corresponding continent. Call function `get_country_continent_dict()`

Output Dataframe structure

| index | iso_code | country year | co2 | continent |

### 2.7 `fig_sunburst_co2_country(curr_year=2018)`
This function used the dataframe returned by `read_co2_country` and generateds a plotly fig object. It will generate a sunburst figure illustrating the CO2 emmision of different countries in a certain year

### 2.8 `fig_map_co2_country(year_start=1990, year_end=2018)`
This function used the dataframe returned by read_co2_country and generateds a plotly fig object. It will generate a world map plot uisng color to illustrate the amount of CO2 generated by different country. The figure use the year as frame.

## 3. envi_graph.ipynb
All the graphs are ploted in this python notebook. Because the limits of GitHUb, the figures can not be rendered.

## 4. envi_merge.py (Working on)
Variation of CO2 emission per person

CO2 emission per person vs gpd per person

CO2 emission vs number of disasters related extream weather (wild fire, flood, drought etc.)